Andrew Garber
March 28-29
US History
President Lincoln's Weaknesses

Abraham Lincoln is frequently honored as one of the "God-Presidents" that he is almost revered in the religion of Americanism. However his flaws as a leader are not frequently noted and often spun by his proponents from leadership weaknesses that crippled the US military for much of the early civil war into quirks of his personality. The two most important flaw of his leadership would have been his greatest strength in any other job, his love of other people which lead to his inability to hurt them and his conflicting views on the subject which he staked his presidency on. 

Lincoln's weakness in his empathy and love for those who served him most resolutely manifested itself in keeping around the early military leaders who led the army to defeat or stalemate repeatedly. George McClellan who was an extrordinary logistician and was an early proponent of the technology of modern war, namely railroads was not at all fit for the role as a commander of the main army of the Union. He lost his nerve several times in key battles which led to humiliating defeats to smaller and less well equipped enemy forces. However every time that Lincoln should have replaced him, McClellan would turn up to the White House with the same excuses and pleas that let him keep his command. While McClellan should have certianly held a role in the command of the US military he was in no way fit to be a battle commander and he took advantage(knowlingly or unknowingly) of Lincoln's weaknesses in this regard which led to the death of thousands of more Union soldiers and the extension of the war. McClellan was also privately dirisive of Lincoln, frequently commenting on how he was unfit to hold the role of Supreme Commander and was unaware of the tactics of modern war. McClellan was not kept around due to any ulterior motive or as a political favor, it was simply due to Lincoln's weakness when it came to hurting those who were close to him, it took him far too long to rip off the proverbial band-aid. When he was finally removed, it took several more command changes each of whom suffered several defeats that should have signaled their end of command before finally General Meade was given command of the Amry Of The Potomac and lead it through the end of the war. 

Lincoln's weakness in his conflicting views on slavery, the central issue of his presidency, caused major damage to the moral strength of the union during the war and would have caused even greater damage to the country during reconstruction had he survived. While Lincoln was one of the foremost leaders on slavery, he was quite transparently atleast somewhat racist with conflicting views on the role of Blacks in American and what they should do following their emancipation. During his campaign for the presidency he quite clearly had two minds on slavery, one of which was that Blacks would eventually become Americans and that as Presidnet his plan was to make sure that all children born from slaves would be free while simulatenously stating that once all Blacks were freed they should be sent back to Africa. This lack of policy line for a single person is the same flaw that doomed the Whig Party(though on a much greater scale) and it undercut the moral attitude that many in the North were seeking in order to give their cause a righteous nature. Lincoln's conflicting views on slavery do not come from his fear of the disollusion of the Union but originiate from the overwhelming nature of the issue, both economically and socially. A massive proportion of the nation's wealth was held in slaves and what would happen to the nation as a whole if all of the wealth was to be instantly evaporated, and what would the nation do with a sudden increase in population in the order of millions of people. In truth, Lincoln never quite reconcilled his views on the issue but instead simply stated that the issue was not an issue but would have to be an oppurtunity: there would be millions of new citizens because doing anything else would be wrong and countre to the principles of the nation, and the nation would harness the oppurtunity and do right by those who they had wronged.

Sources:
HBR [https://hbr.org/2009/04/leadership-lessons-from-abraham-lincoln]
El Paso Times [https://www.elpasotimes.com/story/opinion/readers/2015/07/12/abraham-lincoln-was-leader-great-flaws/71943534/]
WAPO [https://www.washingtonpost.com/entertainment/books/discovering-and-accepting-lincolns-flaws/2012/07/05/gJQA9cT7RW_story.html]