Andrew Garber
U.S History 
Summary Sessions
March 24-25
*Important People That Led To The Civil War*

While the civil war was one of the most complicated conflicts of the 19th century, the prominent characters that led to the civil war were far more ideologically entrenched then the country was as a whole. Both sides of the conflict held ideals that were so wholly opposed that any pretense of debate quickly degenerated into squabbling motivated only by the dogma that they preached. The most important characters that helped to hasten the conflict were John Brown, a militant abolitionist, Abraham Lincoln an abolitionist politican and presidential and Edmund Ruffin a planter/scientist/pro-slavery writer.

John Brown is certainly one of the most interesting characters in all of American history, a prominent figure in the history of multiple Pre-Civil War conflicts including taking part in the murder of five men in Bloddy Kansas after the town of Lawrence was sacked by pro-slavery elements in the state. After becoming a prominent abolitionists militant in Kansas he gained contacts with some of the North's most important abolitionists with the financial means to support his future endavours. His most famous endavour was his raid on an armoury in Harpers Ferry, with the intention of enacting a huge slave revolt that would spread across the South and lead to the end of slavery in America due to fear on the part of slave owners. However, his band of 21 men was not even close to enough to hold the armoury for very long and within two days it had been retaken by national guard units and a contingent of Marines lead by a Colonel Robert E. Lee. While most of his band were killed during the engagemnet, Brown survived to go to trial and was charged with murder, enciting an insurrection, and treason against the state. He was convincted on all counts and was hanged. His failure to provoke a nation wide slave revolt was complete, though his mission to further the cause of aboliton was also advanced as abolitionist newspapers throughout the North printed his speeches from his trial and spread his message even farther.

Pursuing abolition through decidedly less violent means was arguably the greatest champion of abolition in America ever, Abraham Lincoln a president who was largely elected based on his stance on slavery and his mission to hold America together while ending the moral blight of slavery. This message was profoundly popular in the North, while wickedly unpopular in the south but do to the far greater population and electoral weight in the North he won his election handedly. Helping him in this was the compelte disfunction of the Democratic party who had difficulty finding a coherent message on slavery, while broadly pro-slavery they could not find a party line on the issue. When he was in Congress and running for President, it wasn't as if Lincoln had a master plan for the end of slavery it was quite the opposite in fact, he openly admitted that he truly had no idea what to do if slavery was just ended. He believed that slavery was an absolute moral wrong, and that for every day that slavery was still legal in the US that the moral character of the nation was further dimished however he did not know what to do when the cause of abolition was made manifest. 

On the opposite side of the issue of slavery was Edmund Ruffin, one of the greatest proponents of slavery and loudest supporters of secession from the union. Ruffin had an interesting path to his opinions, he was born into luxury as the son of extremely wealthy plantation owners and spent much of his early life becoming the father of soil science and pioneered the concept of crop rotation(ironically a technique popularized by a free black man, George Washington Carver) for cotton and tobacco. He later held office as a State Senator in Virginia and was a prominent writer on the subject of secession and he was inspired to increase his writings after John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry. Ruffin was a member of the group popularly known as the Fire-Eaters who heavily favored secession and during the election of 1860(which Lincoln won) he traveled across the south lobbying the people and local political leaders in favor of secession. He also fired one of the first shots of the civil war during the attack on Fort Sumter, he became a popular propoganda figure both for his writings and his role at Fort Sumter. 

Sources:
John Brown (https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Brown-American-abolitionist)
Edmund Ruffin (https://www.nps.gov/people/edmund-ruffin.htm)
Abraham Lincoln (https://www.npr.org/2010/10/11/130489804/lincolns-evolving-thoughts-on-slavery-and-freedom)