CH1-2 Outline
    • Characters
        ◦ Captain Dan Abel
        ◦ Assistant Captain Nelson Perry
        ◦ Gregory Leon (Rich Industrialist)
        ◦ Toby Mcgarry(Engineer)
        ◦ Ashley Pollick (Computer Scientist and Corry’s Girlfriend)
        ◦ Mikey Posen (Cook)
        ◦ Randy Tolven (Ship Pilot)
        ◦ Corry Heelan (Main Character and retrospective narrator until halfway through the story. The switch happens when they discover that it is not actually uninhabited, the computer systems are actually sentient beings.)
    • Major Plot points
        ◦ On Corry’s first mining trip during their first jump to an asteroid field near the Buxtion System, the Matador runs into an abandoned alien smelting facility on the edge of the asteroid field. Several crew members including Mikey Posen and Randy Tolven are killed in the crash, and the Matador is permanently intertwined with the abandoned station. The Matador is so significantly damaged that they cannot jump back to safety and cannot communicate with the civilized world, leaving them to restart the smelting plant.  
        ◦ The alien plant they run into has technology that ends up being extremely valuable, both due to it’s advanced nature and for helping them build a ship or communication device that is powerful enough to help them get contact with civilization.
        ◦ During their time trapped in the Matador/Station wreck the crew start to understand the value of what they have stumbled apon, not just an alien wreck that would help them survive but an artifact from a precursor race to the modern human dominated region of space.
    • Chapter Goals
        ◦ Establish Characters
        ◦ Establish the situation that led to their crashing into an uninhabited alien wreck
        ◦ Explain the plan of action for survival on the alien wreck(there are food processors, water processors and other required things on the wreck. There is no oxygen however, so they have to mine ice asteroids. The alien sentient computers foresaw this as a likelihood).
